I actually designed to talk about around
my own research but also kind of in
tandem with what kind of the subject
seems to me of the conference so that
was experiential environment so here you
have just a my website if you're
interested most of the slides are always
on there not this yet but I will upload
it somewhere under presentations so I'm
not just sorry I need some more lights
I'm not just an artist or actually I'm
not an only an artist because artists
are one of the most important creatures
in this world especially right now I
think I've also been curating and
researching I'm right now teaching new
media in castle in Germany this is a
festival yes I used to work with glitch
I would say now I'm more into
resolutions I'm trying to kind of give
it away from just a glitch because the
glitch is like maybe too old to keep
researching somehow or there's always
new glitches but you know there is
enough books now I am done so this was a
festive I was organizing with a few
other BOTS we called ourselves BOTS to
kind of not call ourselves curators
because that puts you kind of like in
the position of you know imposing
particular perspectives and we wanted to
have more of an open framework I thought
that was an interesting kind of start
for this because yeah that kind of has
this like this freedom for how to create
an experience of space in terms of a
festival an other thing I was part of
was dark ecology which is a three years
research kind of trip to the polar
regions around Norway and Russia and so
to me this is one of the most
interesting experience or festivals or
events or research trips whatever you
want to call it because you know you're
really in a space that is super mega
brutal for the people that are aware of
for instance Morton's dark ecology book
you're really in the dark ecology no I
will not go into that more but I wanted
to introduce also like how I feel like I
connect maybe from another side then art
artists
work so this is an odd thing that I've
been talking about a lot but I think
it's really important here especially
also with the hexa dome for me my
perspective in what screens our screens
are not just this thing that you sit in
front of and that you know put stuff on
you it's also a filter for any kind of
content and I experienced that a lot
during my performance in Moscow in 2013
when I was doing a live performance and
everybody that does live performance
said that does live video generation
knows that it's important to really be
life otherwise you lose the beat you
know the rhythm and it wasn't possible
because I mean my interpretation is I
came from the Netherlands it is was just
during the new LG they then it was just
LG Jesus the band on any kind of
same-sex are transgressive for them they
call it propaganda so there's this whole
like been on this and they were afraid
of me being political in this in this
setting and you know we had a lot of
talks about it I wanted to but I don't
want to go to kulak so I didn't but I
did get the Russian police on my tail or
I've called the Russian video police
because they put a guided that put a
delay on my video and so my whole
performance was horrible because I could
not get on you know I cannot be 5
seconds in the future to come you know
with my projection life and so what I
realized in this case it's like yeah
there is a thickness in the screen it's
like the audience will only see what
they see on the screen they will not see
the production on the video and that was
for me very important another important
thing that I learned was from going to
hell Allah for those who are not aware
of
that's an artist surrealist garden in
Mexico and when I was there I was very
confused about kind of like how to
navigate this space and then I thought
ok what I should really do is learn from
this I should learn what is architecture
normally architecture is a way you know
to organize the flow but actually what I
want is maybe to learn how to deregulate
the flow to see how to build videos that
are maybe not always that organized like
how the Russian video police organized
my videos for instance so I build a
video performance tool let's say in
which I would put videos in 3d spaces
textures and then I could kind of escape
this quadrilateral image of normal video
and I presented it and I liked all my
work I put it on the internet and I got
a beautiful review because you know I
put it in a 3d environment so it was a
video game I didn't think about that so
I learned that every time you put
something in a wrapper that wrapper kind
of imposes the reading so I had all
these like learning moments and then I
thought okay there's this hierarchies of
how to read stuff and you cannot really
get away from them you're always always
stuck in the hierarchies so that's how
my research developed into what our
resolutions resolutions are the way we
read stuff but there are also
compromises on how we're not reading
other stuff and so that's where I really
pivoted away from glitches I think it's
very important to talk about what these
compromises are and that is in terms of
all kinds of levels of our content as
artists as producers as software
developers so just going back to the
screen for a moment I thought it would
be the best subject to tackle here this
is a beautiful definition of the screen
it's written by the Finnish researcher
RQ Tom oh I like to read it out loud in
spite of their ubiquitous presence
screens are strangely evasive they are
hard to grasp they are constantly
metamorphosing appearing new places and
in new forms they're big screens they're
small screens sums are flat some fat
some are attached to a box some are like
the Sun they're active they're radiating
and they have a life of their own while
others are like the moon their passive
their reflecting light projected at them
there are screens observed from a
distance and others are touched and
interacted with health in one's hand
but how to formulate a definition that
would embrace them all does it even make
sense to ask that question but I will
not completely answer this but I do
think there is something to take away
from this talk another research I've
been doing is into compressions that's
kind of coming from my research into
glitch this is a VR environment I built
its DCT siphoning DCT for those who are
not familiar with DCT is like the
building break of the JPEG so the most
used image compression in the world ever
it's kind of like really resting on this
one algorithm which is called DCT
discrete cosine transform and in this
particular environment I wanted to kind
of explain a story of the imposition of
compressions and what is not compressed
and what cannot be read read so through
a story of a big block and a small block
who both go through these different
kinds of layers of compression or I call
them compression complexities so from
like the pixels to the lines and from
the lines to the blocks and then they
move to the wavelets and to vector space
and at some point the blocks go crazy
because they are not from vector space
so that's where they quit yeah and then
I started to project this not just in VR
because I'm still fighting to get away
from you know the quadrilateral screen
into this I call it a spa Minich this is
like a screen that has different angles
and you have makhotin shards so I had a
lot of shards in space projecting
different kinds of VR behind the screen
you could do the VR and it was a part
that was like life projected and so I
tried to kind of break up the psyche
experience of what is VR neck to the
next chapter this is a beautiful image
by the way but it's from Batman and all
Batman unlearn designed habits of
perception so I started to really ask
myself what is the screen or I was
actually asked at some point like what
is the future of the screen and I'm not
really like a future teller but I can
try so I started to ask Google first
for for google it's blue and it has
weird it has like weird organizations of
the data like I mean I have no idea who
would be able to read this then I
thought okay maybe a better way is to
start doing research into screens from
sci-fi movies so I started to watch all
the trailers in the internet movie
database of the last 25 years the 20
that had the most box-office success
because I feel like if we're talking
about the future of the screen it's
about how a language of what a screen is
being made and there must be some kind
of reference there and what I found was
lilo and stitch I found I'm just showing
some of my favorite screens this is Spy
Kids 2 this is a woman who is writing to
the to this information agency through
her lipstick keyboards this is the men
in black here we see in the sci-fi
screens were actually getting away from
the quadrilateral screen it's amazing
these are all rounds Kingsman this is an
umbrella screen and it kind of like
protects you from the stuff while it
also gives you metadata on your
environment oh yeah here we have
minority reports obviously it's blue
they're in in sci-fi life in the future
and and this is how you enter very nice
Star Wars has also Holograms and it's
because they are going I believe there
was like a I tried to understand why it
had noise but it was because they were
going through a galaxy so it had to have
some noise analog noise this is
prometheus Wow they're all blue what's
happening Wing Commander he has got
augmented reality glasses oh yeah this I
like because in ghosts of the shell
we're kind of putting the screen in our
brain so this is a beautiful i spy kids
are actually the best
this is like six levels of augmented
reality like stack they are or something
I don't know
so here you have it you can find it
under under the beyond resolution info
website but I caught all the screens all
the images and all the noise and I try
to describe it so what can is actually
teaches about the future of the screen
well it teaches us that the future is
basically blue and I didn't there's more
to that but you can read it in the paper
but what I what I liked when I started
to think like why viruses come from
I found this guy or it's actually two
people Nathan's shed shed roof and
Christopher knew so they might be from
here actually but I don't know them so
but they were actually asking the same
questions and to them there was a reason
for that it's because of the things done
light and it's so just an easier way to
change the colors in you know color
change after the film is shots there's a
very practical reason why the future is
blue it's quite boring
it's about lightening of the now so I'm
if this is Wendy Chen she wrote a
beautiful book updating to remain the
same and it's about habitual practices
going to make a little bit of a sharp
break but it's for a reason it's about
the suspension of belief I believe we
have we always believed in the
suspension of disbelief but at this
point in time especially here in the US
but actually the whole world is
borrowing their political and their ways
of language from the US if they're not
intelligent enough so we are living in a
time in which there is no such thing
anymore as believing in reality or truth
everything is like double guests
everything is like decontextualized and
no longer very truthful let's say I
think you know exactly what I mean
which is interesting what I did here
it's a joke the u.s. joke this is like
the harm to ongoing matter if you
member this mueller report that was just
completely the black flag of your
country somehow I put the sorry I live
with a Mexican so we get to hate on us
everyday too much information it's the
truth so here we have a black hole on
the moola report this is in between
those dates the Netherlands actually
started the the World Press Photo in
1955 but I believe it's now a very
universe or a very earthly thing like
it's everywhere
this photo one the World Press Photo
which is very important at this photo
one but what I wanted to point out which
i think is like me making fun of my own
country because i get to do that after i
made fun of your country this is one of
the rules of the world press photo is
what are the rules of making they don't
use the world real but like what counts
as a world press photo for instance you
cannot change your colors now look at
this photo well it's not announced that
completely edited but the photo of the
black hole i would say that's a photo
must be but it's taken even through all
kinds of lenses but this would never be
allowed to send into the world press
photo
I think this shattered our ideas of what
the world and our universe could be so
this was taken on the 10th of April this
image one on the 11th of April of course
there is no real connection to them at
all but I just wanted to kind of point
out that everything we understand about
our media are archetypes our photography
screens videos sci-fi they're all stuck
in these like very small defined boxes
so this is not a photo but this is
obviously yes it's a very important
photo and image okay we're going to back
to VR I just wanted to pull this up and
not give any comments on it because
I wanted to actually comment on this so
this is a VR experience about how to
cross the border it was brought up
yesterday so how to feel like an
immigrant going through the desert and
this is Chris milk he might also be from
this region
you know just staying close to the
trouble he he wrote he he was in 2015
one of the important dudes to talk about
VR and he called it the ultimate empathy
machine
I just wanted to stress since I'm here
empathy is nothing if we don't know if
we don't have compassion sympathy
morality ethics if we don't act so I
would just wonder how much this really
makes people act like you know that's a
that's an important problem and then I
started to look at his work and actually
I found it very very striking he's a
good word that he's working for the
United Nations VR he's making 360 videos
VR mmm-hmm so the first three iterations
they had actually were following young
girls in problematic regions and that's
the ultimate empathy machine you know I
do you see where I'm getting and it's a
little bit exploitative I thought like
and you also have empathy without young
so we all know this but you know let's
put it in there so what's happening is I
feel like and that's actually where I
wanted to kind of put the conclusion
like how do you really make something
immersive or experiential like how can
you make people really more than just
having that empathy or that moment of
inch and then they go on to their normal
business for me that is not about
watching you know a sad story about a
young girl or whatever for me it's to
make your audience really question
something or make them want to
understand but be a little bit worried
if they do understand because that makes
them really think longer so I'm kind
in favor of creating these spaces that
are double so I'm referencing double
thing here but then a double space a
space that has multiple interpretation
maybe it's a love letter or maybe it's
just somebody just died you know like
that's that's like for me this moment
when people are just thinking what is
going on so I've been trying to think in
what these things could be and I got
into the desktop genre so these are like
videos that are happening or artworks
that are taking place just on the
desktop to construct this kind of like
uniform of space that we have right here
that we're using on a daily basis I
think the future of the desktop genre is
actually gone because nobody uses
computers anymore especially if you go
to Japan people just use phones so maybe
it's like the screen of the
system-on-a-chip
or I don't know whatever but so for me
the work that I made is behind white
shadows is the newest work I made which
I would say maybe it's but that's a joke
but maybe it's also double spaced so
what I have been doing research in to is
white shadows which are basically to me
the women that have been at the basis of
image processing but never have been
really shown you know Elena's for
instance the test color test card of
JPEG algorithm so she's the only color
test part of the JPEG algorithm that
also means by the way that there might
be a better JPEG algorithm if we would
have tested in other people of color
princess but anyway so I made this
desktop in which all these women because
there is so many of them that were the
color or the test cards or the reference
cards for all our technologies ever
still and made them give some comments
about how it is to be color test card
and to me that's kind of yeah one way to
deal with this and make it a double
space or a space that is kind of funny
but it's actually really terrible so um
I wanted to leave it at that thank you
very much
[Applause]